Changelog
=========


v0.1rc2 (2024-09-10)
--------------------

Release commit(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Release v0.1rc2dev0 → v0.1rc2. [Forge of Absurd Ducks]

Gitlab task(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Docker entrypoint script to set volume owner. [Quacktor AI]

  - Remove user from docker image
  - Add `docker-entrypoint.sh` as entrypoint for the docker image
  - Implement `docker-entrypoint.sh` to:
    - ensure user and group exists according to env var
    - data and logs directories ownership matches user and group
    - execute subsequent commands given through the docker commands list
      as specified user and group


v0.1rc1 (2024-08-01)
--------------------

Release commit(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Release v0.1rc1dev0 → v0.1rc1. [Forge of Absurd Ducks]

Gitlab task(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Fix enums schema & Upgrade to Postgres 16. [Quacktor AI]

  - Fix enums inconsistencies in naming by specifying a schema
  - Put enums in quackamollie_types schema
  - Upgrade docker-compose to postgres 16
  - Regenerate alembic migration with enums schemas


v0.1rc0 (2024-08-01)
--------------------

Release commit(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Release v0.1rc0dev0 → v0.1rc0. [Forge of Absurd Ducks]

Gitlab task(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Fix log directory creation. [Quacktor AI]
- Reference db schema in readme from devtools. [Quacktor AI]
- Use `alembic_postgresql_enum` in migrations. [Quacktor AI]
- Escape HTML characters in history command. [Quacktor AI]
- Create log dir in dockerfile for chown. [Quacktor AI]
- Fix unknown model manager from db in message. [Quacktor AI]


v0.1b0 (2024-07-11)
-------------------

Release commit(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Release v0.1b0dev0 → v0.1b0. [Forge of Absurd Ducks]

Gitlab task(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- PyPI and Docker registries in README. [Quacktor AI]
- Fix gitchangelog task parsing. [Quacktor AI]


v0.1a1 (2024-07-11)
-------------------

Release commit(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Release v0.1a1dev0 → v0.1a1. [Forge of Absurd Ducks]

Gitlab task(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Include CHANGELOG.rst in pkg Manifest. [Quacktor AI]

  - Include CHANGELOG.rst in pkg Manifest
  - Improve changelog parsing of git commit and tag messages so it matches
    commits and tags generated by bump-my-version


v0.1a0 (2024-07-11)
-------------------

Gitlab task(s)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- Add ssh-add-pass script from CI templtes. [Quacktor AI]
- Add docker build and release in CI. [Quacktor AI]
- Reference project documentation in README. [Quacktor AI]
- Add docs and quackamollie workflow CIs. [Quacktor AI]

Other
~~~~~
- Bump version: v0.1a0dev0 → v0.1a0. [Forge of Absurd Ducks]


