# Syslog Manager

Syslog Manager is a terminal-based tool for manipulating and querying syslog files. It allows you to export syslog data to JSON or SQL formats, perform simple and complex queries, and split syslog files by day.

## Features

1. **Export Syslog**
   - Export syslog data to a JSON file.
   - Export syslog data to a CSV file.
   - Export syslog data to a SQL file.

2. **Query Syslog**
   - Retrieve log messages between two timestamps.
   - Retrieve log messages originating from a specific process.
   - Retrieve log messages that contain specific terms.
   - **New in v2.0.0:** Support for querying data from JSON and CSV files in addition to syslog (.log) files.

3. **Split Syslog**
   - Split a syslog file into multiple files, each storing events for a single day.

4. **Count Events per Process**
   - Count the number of events generated by each process.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.12

### From PyPi (Recommended)
You can install Syslog Manager directly from PyPI using pip:

   ```bash
   pip install syslog_manager
   ```

### From GitHub Release
Alternatively, you can download the .whl package from the GitHub Releases page and install it using pip:

   ```bash
   pip install path/to/syslog_manager-x.x.x-py3-none-any.whl
   ```
Replace path/to/ with the actual path to the downloaded .whl file.

## Usage

Once installed, the syslog_manager command is available in your terminal. Below are some examples of how to use it.

### Export Syslog

1. **Export to JSON:**

   ```bash
   syslog_manager export json /path/to/syslog.log /path/to/output.json
   ```

2. **Export to CSV:**

   ```bash
   syslog_manager export csv /path/to/syslog.log /path/to/output.csv
   ```
   
3. **Export to SQL:**

   ```bash
   syslog_manager export sql /path/to/syslog.log /path/to/output.sql
   ```
   
### Query Syslog
In version 2.0.0, the query command now accepts log, JSON, and CSV files as input. The format is specified as part of the command.
1. **Retrieve Log Messages Between Two Timestamps:**

   ```bash
   syslog_manager query [log, json, csv] /path/to/syslog.[log, json, csv] between 01/01/2024 07/07/2024
   ```
   
2. **Retrieve Log Messages from a Specific Process:**

   ```bash
   syslog_manager query [log, json, csv] /path/to/syslog.[log, json, csv] from_process process_name
   ```
   
3. **Retrieve Log Messages Containing Specific Terms:**

   ```bash
   syslog_manager query [log, json, csv] /path/to/syslog.[log, json, csv] contains_words word1,word2,word3
   ```
   
### Split Syslog

1. **Split Syslog into Daily Files:**

   ```bash
   syslog_manager split /path/to/syslog.log
   ```

### Count Events per Process

1. **Count the Number of Events per Process:**

   ```bash
   syslog_manager count_event_per_process /path/to/syslog.log
   ```